To understand how a transpose convolutional layer works,
let's briefly revisit the convolution operation.
Imagine that we have an input image that's four by four pixels,
small but good for an example.
We want to produce an output filtered image that's the same size.
This is our usual case,
and we've seen that we can use
a three-by-three kernel and a padding of one one get this result.
Convolution tells us to multiply each pixel value in
the input image by the weights of the overlaid kernel,
and then add them all up to get the resultant output pixel value.
We typically have a stride of one one do this for every pixel in the input image,
but what if we had a stride of two?
Well, our kernel would move to the right and down by two pixels at a time instead of one,
and the output will be a two-by-two filtered image.
The filter is moving two pixels for every one pixel in the output image,
and it turns out that the stride value is roughly
the ratio of the input to output dimensions.
In this way, a convolutional operation can actually down sample an image.
Now, keep this stride value of two in mind as I
show you how transpose convolution reverses this process.
It can take a single pixel from a two-by-two image,
place a three-by-three kernel over it,
then multiply that one pixel value by
one kernel weights to get a resultant three-by-three pixel area.
Say I do this with the first pixel,
and I get a three by three output area with some center.
Then, I try to do the same thing for the second pixel.
I'll assume that my stride is two in the output,
so the center of the generated area will be
two to the right of two center of this three-by-three area.
Now, transpose convolution will produce another three-by-three area,
one that overlaps with the initial one.
In the case of overlap,
these one will just be summed together.
If I do this for all four of the input pixels,
it will give a five-by-five resultant area.
There are some options to add or subtract padding from this output,
but the most common case,
it will use a two-by-two filter and a stride of
two to double the x and y dimensions of two input.
The weights in the kernel here are learned much like in a convolutional layer.
Only this time, the purpose is to learn effective upsampling.
Next, I'll show you how to define and train
a convolutional auto-encoder that utilizes transpose convolutional layers.